the third law of motion - every action
is people and opposite reaction by push
against the great you didn't think I was
gonna answer that digital if you push
against the ground the ground pushes
back against heels so if I do this in a
serve and I still ate the fights here my
leg knee joint I do flexion now I extend
I push against the graphic ground pushes
against me so every action is nikohl not
reaction why does that when you're
questioning was it the same as the
linear okay surround reaction forces yes
okay so I'm creating ground reaction
forces by pushing against the ground the
ground pushing against me
it starts with this knee extension let's
take the serve as an example this knee
extension creates linear forces going
upwards vertically that is now being
translated into hip rotation angularly
and front rotation angularly and then my
arm swinging forward so the ground
reaction forces are the basis of what we
call the kinetic link system or the
kinetic chain so that's the combination
of linear and angular but it starts with
linear momentum going vertically then
there's that linear momentum going
horizontally I'm annoyed if I answered
your question for that had some stuff in
there yeah yeah though that was very
good so is it is that the same as linear
yet is that the linear moment it's not
the same exactly but up then but it
allows you to
reduce linear momentum to ground
reaction forces yes I explain the
difference between a pinpoint server and
a platform server
sure that's been some research in that
actually and and the simple answer to
this is from reaction forces know if you
serve with this kind of a platform of
motion you get fairly good ground
reaction forces if you use the back leg
as much as you do the front leg and by
bringing the foot up which is a 10-point
I would probably put up possession you
typically if you can keep your horses
going between your base of support
between your feet you typically will
create more ground reaction forces so
can you create some more forces by the
pivot point yes but it's minor there's
not a huge difference remember that in
different ways to create force you can
create force this way if you think of
John McEnroe picture him in your mind
serving where he had a lot of horizontal
rotation in a serve right where she had
someone to like Boris Becker or Edward
had a lot more vertical action both
reduce force and so part of that is
whatever you're most comfortable with
however I having said that the research
does show that the pinpoint sir allows
you to create a few
more forces than has been the platform
sir festivities if you keep you forces
between your base of support
well and hopefully you're going forward
so much did you have that people Italy
import as well the guy again that's an
innovator